hey everyone this has come down and
today we're going to talk about the
github actions
getup actions are really powerful and
they allow you to automate your
workflows
i've been using them in roadmap.essay so
whenever i push something
it automatically runs the actions and
the website is deployed automatically to
roadmap.sh they are written normally in
the form of yaml files and can be found
on the github directory called.github
under the workflows
here i have a file called deploy.eml
with a workflow called deployment to
github pages and it is instructing
github that whenever i push to the
branch master
it should run the jobs that i have
listed here so first of all it will run
the job called build
that is going to be running on a ubuntu
container so first of all it will clone
the repository using this action
then it will set up the node version 12
then it will install the dependencies
and then the build and then it will
simply deploy the project to the github
pages
you can find the history of all the
github actions run in the actions tab so
if i go to the actions tab so this is
the most recent run
and if i go here and click the build so
under the build job we have all the
actions that were run
and you can click and see the logs for
all the commands that were done
let's write our own workflow to see how
it is working here on my local i have a
html file called index.html with some
text
then under the test directory i have a
dummy file which is just printing that
the tests are passing and then in my
package.json i have two scripts
one called build which is just logging
that the code has been built
and the test script is just running the
dummy file that we have i've already put
the code base to github and deploy it to
the github pages branch
and you can see the output on the url at
this page but i've done it manually and
you will see that i don't have any
actions at this moment let's automate
this process that whenever i push
something to the master bunch it will
automatically
build and deploy the changes onto the
website without us doing anything
to do that i will go to the code base
and create a directory called.github
under that i will create another
directory called workflows
and inside that we're going to have a
file called deployment.yml which is
going to be holding our workflow inside
this file first thing i'm going to do is
i'm going to give it a name
our job name is going to be deployment
next we have an event on which we want
to run our action
because you want to run our workflow on
the push so we are going to add the push
on the branches master it can be an
array of branches
but in our case we are only going to
have master for now next we have a list
of
jobs that we want to run under this
workflow so our first job is going to be
called build which is going to run
on ubuntu ubuntu is a container or the
machine that we want our
workflow to run on and the steps that we
are going to put for that are first of
all pull the repository and check out
the branch using the action called
checkout checkout is one of the official
github actions and there are a lot of
actions available from the community as
well to deploy our website to github
pages we are going to use one such
action called
get a pages deploy action which we give
the branch and the folder that we want
to deploy and it will automatically
reply our website to the github pages
secrets is something that we are not
going to cover in this lesson but github
provides the secrets under the secrets
variable this action requires a github
token
so we're taking it from the github token
secret and giving it to the
action using the environment variable
called github underscore token
so now let's commit our changes and see
how it works i'm going to commit all of
my changes and push it to github and if
i go to the browser and refresh
you will see an already dot which means
that our action is running
and now if i click the details button it
will take me to the actions tab where we
can see our action running
it will go through all the steps and
after some time our deployment will be
finished
now if i go back to the repository page
you will see that our orange circle has
turned into a check now which means that
our action was successful let's go back
to the code base and add some more steps
so i'm going to add the steps for build
and test but to do that we are going to
require
node as well so in our steps after the
checkout we are going to set up the node
version 12. so i will add another action
called
setup node with node version set to 12
and i will also add two more steps to
run build and the test
next before we push our changes to
github let me add some changes to our
index.html
file so to make sure that our changes
are getting deployed i'm going to open
deskt.html and just add three
exclamation marks here and then i will
open the terminal
add my changes to staging and push it
all to github
now if i go to the browser and refresh
you will see the ordering circle which
means that our
build is running and if i click the
details and go to the
actions page you'll see that we have our
new steps
in the build steps also the build and
the test if i click build you see that
we have our echo built
and in the test it is also showing that
the tests are passing
go back to the github repository and you
will see that our action is now
successful and now if i open the website
and refresh you will see that our
changes are being reflected now let's go
back to the code base and see what
happens when one of our
build steps fail so i'm going to make
our test cases fail by throwing an error
i'm also going to make some changes to
our index.html to see that if
our changes are deployed inferior or not
next i'm gonna go to the terminal commit
my changes and push them to github
and now if i open the browser and
refresh you will see the already dot
which means that our build is running
click this and go to the build detail
page
wait for the build to finish you will
see that our build
failed at running the test cases and no
steps after that were done
and if i click and expand the failed
step you will see the error that made
the build to fail
now if i go to the repository landing
page you will see a cross mark
which means that our build was failed
and if you go to the website
you will see that our changes were not
deployed github actions are really
powerful
and you can do a lot with them to
automate your workflows and also you can
find a lot of github accounts made by
the community on github and in the
marketplace which you can use to
automate your workflows and the other
good thing about them
is that they're completely free for the
open source and with that our lesson
comes to an end i hope you enjoyed it
thank you for watching and i will see
you in the next lesson
you